Update the certbot documentation to better utilize the updated certbot versions and information (#4200)
mattermost/docs: source/install/config-ssl-http2-nginx.rst

.. note::
   If Let’s Encrypt is enabled, forward port 80 through a firewall, with `Forward80To443 <https://docs.mattermost.com/administration/config-settings.html#forward-port-80-to-443>`__ ``config.json`` setting set to ``true`` to complete the Let’s Encrypt certification.

**To configure NGINX as a proxy with SSL and HTTP/2**

If you're looking for additional Let's Encrypt/Certbot assistance you can access their documentation `here <https://certbot.eff.org>`_ .

1. Log in to the server that hosts NGINX and open a terminal window.

2. Open the your Mattermost ``nginx.conf`` file as *root* in a text editor and update the IP address in the ``upstream backend`` to point towards Mattermost, and the ``server_name`` to be your domain for Mattermost.

.. note::
   On Ubuntu this file is located at ``/etc/nginx/sites-available/``. If you don't have this file run ``sudo touch /etc/nginx/sites-available/mattermost``.
   On CentOS/RHEL this file is located at ``/etc/nginx/conf.d/``. If you don't have this file run ``sudo touch /etc/nginx/conf.d/mattermost``.
   
.. code-block:: none

   upstream backend {

>        server {ip}:8065;

Reviewer: Maybe we should explicitly ask to replace `{ip}` with the upstream IP?

Author: I can change the verbiage to that if you think it'll make more sense. They just need to plug in whatever their upstream IP is. Whether that's localhost, 10.0.0.x, etc.

Author: I call out on line 23 to update this upstream IP to something that points to Mattermost. I'll update a comment above it to make it more explicit

   server {
       listen 80 default_server;
       server_name mattermost.example.com;

       location ~ /api/v[0-9]+/(users/)?websocket$ {
           proxy_set_header Upgrade $http_upgrade;
           proxy_set_header Connection "upgrade";
           client_max_body_size 50M;
           proxy_set_header Host $http_host;
           proxy_set_header X-Real-IP $remote_addr;
           proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-For $proxy_add_x_forwarded_for;
           proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-Proto $scheme;
           proxy_set_header X-Frame-Options SAMEORIGIN;
           proxy_buffers 256 16k;
           proxy_buffer_size 16k;
           client_body_timeout 60;
           send_timeout 300;
           lingering_timeout 5;
           proxy_connect_timeout 90;
           proxy_send_timeout 300;
           proxy_read_timeout 90s;
           proxy_pass http://backend;
       }

       location / {
           client_max_body_size 50M;
           proxy_set_header Connection "";
           proxy_set_header Host $http_host;
           proxy_set_header X-Real-IP $remote_addr;

>            proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-For $proxy_add_x_forwarded_for;

Reviewer: Unless you are nesting proxies, you may want `$remote_addr` for it as well:

```
$proxy_add_x_forwarded_for
the “X-Forwarded-For” client request header field with the $remote_addr variable appended to it, separated by a comma. If the “X-Forwarded-For” field is not present in the client request header, the $proxy_add_x_forwarded_for variable is equal to the $remote_addr variable.
```

Author: This is actually the default nginx.conf config we have listed now. Are you saying to modify it to :

```
proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-For $proxy_add_x_forwarded_for, $remote_addr;
```

I'm not as familiar with this. Just copy/pasted what we had previously.

Reviewer: Let's revisit this later on since it's an unrelated change and will need some additional documentation. We can create a new issue to track this.

6. Restart NGINX.

  On Ubuntu 18.04+, RHEL 7+:

  ``sudo systemctl start nginx``

7. Verify that you can see Mattermost through the proxy.

  ``curl http://localhost``

  If everything is working, you will see the HTML for the Mattermost signup page. You will see invalid certificate when accessing through the IP or localhost. Use the full FQDN domain to verify if the SSL certificate has pinned properly and is valid.

8. Install and update Snap.

  ``sudo snap install core; sudo snap refresh core``

9. Install the Certbot package.

  ``sudo snap install --classic certbot``

10. Add a symbolic link to ensure Certbot can run.

  ``sudo ln -s /snap/bin/certbot /usr/bin/certbot``

11. Run the Let's Encrypt installer dry-run to ensure your DNS is configured properly.

  ``sudo certbot certbot --dry-run``

  This will prompt you to enter your email, accept the TOS, share your email, and select the domain you're activating certbot for. This will validate that your DNS points to this server properly and you are able to successfully generate a certificate. If this finishes successfully, proceed to step 12.
  
12. Run the Let's Encrypt installer.

  ``sudo certbot``

>   This will run certbot and will automatically edit your nginx conf file for the site(s) selected.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  This will run certbot and will automatically edit your NGINX config file for the site(s) selected.
```

       ssl_protocols TLSv1.2 TLSv1.3;

       # Enable TLSv1.3's 0-RTT. Use $ssl_early_data when reverse proxying to
       # prevent replay attacks.
       #
       # @see: https://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_ssl_module.html#ssl_early_data
       ssl_early_data on;

       ssl_ciphers 'ECDHE-ECDSA-AES256-GCM-SHA384:ECDHE-RSA-AES256-GCM-SHA384:ECDHE-ECDSA-CHACHA20-POLY1305:ECDHE-RSA-CHACHA20-POLY1305:ECDHE-ECDSA-AES128-GCM-SHA256:ECDHE-RSA-AES128-GCM-SHA256:ECDHE-ECDSA-AES256-SH>
       ssl_prefer_server_ciphers on;
       ssl_session_cache shared:SSL:50m;
       # HSTS (ngx_http_headers_module is required) (15768000 seconds = 6 months)
       add_header Strict-Transport-Security max-age=15768000;
       # OCSP Stapling ---
       # fetch OCSP records from URL in ssl_certificate and cache them
       ssl_stapling on;
       ssl_stapling_verify on;
   }

   server {
       if ($host = mattermost.example.com) {
           return 301 https://$host$request_uri;
       } # managed by Certbot

       listen 80 default_server;
       server_name mattermost.example.com;
       return 404; # managed by Certbot

   }

> 14. Check that your SSL certificate is set up correctly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
15. Check that your SSL certificate is set up correctly.
```

>   * Test the SSL certificate by visiting a site such as https://www.ssllabs.com/ssltest/index.html

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * Test the SSL certificate by visiting a site such as https://www.ssllabs.com/ssltest/index.html.
```

>   * Test the SSL certificate by visiting a site such as https://www.ssllabs.com/ssltest/index.html

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * Test the SSL certificate by visiting a site such as https://www.ssllabs.com/ssltest/index.html.
```

1. Log in to your GitLab instance as the admin.
2. Go to **Admin > Applications**.
3. Select **Edit** on GitLab-Mattermost.

> 4. Update the Callback URLs to your new domain/URL.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Update the callback URLs to your new domain/URL.
```

Author: @justinegeffen it looked like this was suggested twice. See the screenshot. Other than that, I ran back through the suggestions and it looked good!

![Screen Shot 2021-02-09 at 11 21 31 AM](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/46071821/107393862-3ed43f00-6ac9-11eb-8e95-cc0ea480e56a.png)

> 4. Update the Callback URLs to your new domain/URL.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Update the callback URLs to your new domain/URL.
```

5. Save the changes.
6. Update the external URL for GitLab and Mattermost in the ``/etc/gitlab/gitlab.rb`` configuration file.

**Why does Certbot fail the http-01 challenge?**

.. code-block:: none

      Requesting a certificate for yourdomain.com
      Performing the following challenges:
      http-01 challenge for yourdomain.com
      Waiting for verification...
      Challenge failed for domain yourdomain.com
      http-01 challenge for yourdomain.com
      Cleaning up challenges
      Some challenges have failed.
   
If you see the above errors this is typically because certbot was not able to access port 80. This can be due to a firewall or other DNS configuration. Ensure that your A/AAAA records are pointing to this server and your ``server_name`` within the NGINX config does not have a redirect.

.. note::
   If you're using Cloudflare you'll need to disable ``force traffic to https``.

> **Certbot Rate Limiting**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Certbot rate limiting**
```

> If running certbot as stand-alone you'll see the below error:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you're running certbot as stand-alone you'll see this error:
```

> If running certbot as stand-alone you'll see the below error:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you're running certbot as stand-alone you'll see this error:
```

.. code-block:: none

      Error: Could not issue a Let's Encrypt SSL/TLS certificate for example.com.
      One of the Let's Encrypt rate limits has been exceeded for example.com.
      See the related Knowledge Base article for details.
      Details
      Invalid response from https://acme-v02.api.letsencrypt.org/acme/new-order.
      Details:
      Type: urn:ietf:params:acme:error:rateLimited
      Status: 429
      Detail: Error creating new order :: too many failed authorizations recently: see https://letsencrypt.org/docs/rate-limits/

> If running Let's Encrypt within Mattermost you'll see the below error:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you're running Let's Encrypt within Mattermost you'll see this error:
```

.. code-block:: none

      {"level":"error","ts":1609092001.752515,"caller":"http/server.go:3088","msg":"http: TLS handshake error from ip:port: 429 urn:ietf:params:acme:error:rateLimited: Error creating new order :: too many failed authorizations recently: see https://letsencrypt.org/docs/rate-limits/","source":"httpserver"}

> This error means that you've attempted to generate a cert too many times. You can find more information here - https://letsencrypt.org/docs/rate-limits/.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This error means that you've attempted to generate a cert too many times. You can find more information `here <https://letsencrypt.org/docs/rate-limits>`_.
```
